Tried to tighten up words (#274)
ITU-DevOps2026/ITU-minitwit: report/sections/03-0-reflection_perspective.md

## Multi-instance environment (Docker Swarm):

> Implementing Docker Swarm required the application to be stateless. This was achieved by refactoring the "latest" value, originally stored in memory, to persist in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementing Docker Swarm required the application to be stateless. This included refactoring the "latest" value, originally stored in memory, to persist in the database.
```

Furthermore, Swarm and Traefik loadbalancing broke our users login states, logging users out as requests shifted between replicas. This was resolved by implementing sticky session cookies to consistently route a user to the same instance.

> Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm to track both individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by Minitwit pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm to track both individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana.
```

> Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm to track both individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by Minitwit pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm and use a service discovery package such as the [prometheus-docker-sd package](https://github.com/stuckyhm/prometheus-docker-sd) to discover and track individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana. Monitoring of the database and other relevant containers would also be useful. 
```

> Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by Minitwit pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm to track both individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moving to Swarm also disrupted our monitoring setup, as Prometheus struggled to track dynamic instances. We partially mitigated our metrics fluctuating, by Minitwit pulling data directly from the database. With more time, a better solution would be to deploy Prometheus as a global service in our Swarm and use a service discovery package such as the [prometheus-docker-sd package](https://github.com/stuckyhm/prometheus-docker-sd) to discover and track individual replica metrics and cluster-wide averages in Grafana. Monitoring of the database and other relevant containers would also be useful. 
```

To handle this, we added utf8mb4 encoding to our schemas and cleaned SQLite-specific elements using a tailored pipeline (sed, stripping Byte Order Marks). To minimize downtime, we developed a multi-batch migration strategy: we made a large initial seed, and right before the switch, we used the Linux comm tool to calculate a dump consisting only of new records written during the sync.

During the final deployment, an omission in updating the production environment connection string caused a few minutes of unintended downtime, where we missed 19 register requests according to our dashboard tracking. This showed how even minor manual steps in configuration updates introduce human error, highlighting the necessity of automation.

## Attacks on the Database

> A few hours after migrating to MySQL, our database droplet was breached by automated ransomware bots because it was exposed to the public internet without a firewall, resulting in total data erasure and a Bitcoin ransom demand (see ransom note in the appendix [Ransom note from hacker](#ransom_note_from_hacker)). To prevent this in the future, we used Vagrant to provision firewalls and configured MySQL to only accept connections from specific IP addresses (our application droplets). Additionally we added a Digital ocean firewall, described in the [Security](#security) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few hours after migrating to MySQL, our database droplet was breached by automated ransomware bots because it was exposed to the public internet without a firewall, resulting in total data erasure and a Bitcoin ransom demand (see ransom note in the appendix [Ransom note from hacker](#ransom-note-from-hacker)). To prevent this in the future, we used Vagrant to provision firewalls and configured MySQL to only accept connections from specific IP addresses (our application droplets). Additionally we added a Digital ocean firewall, described in the [Security](#security) section.
```

> We also faced heavy, SSH attacks on the database droplet, causing severe CPU spikes and prolonged MiniTwit downtime as the database struggled to reject login attempts. To mitigate this, we deployed fail2ban on the database droplet to ban IP addresses for 24 hours after two failed login attempts. This successfully deferred the threat, with around 200 malicious IP addresses currently jailed .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We also faced heavy, SSH attacks on the database droplet, causing severe CPU spikes and prolonged MiniTwit downtime as the database struggled to reject login attempts. To mitigate this, we deployed fail2ban on the database droplet to ban IP addresses for 24 hours after two failed login attempts. This successfully deferred the threat, with around 200 malicious IP addresses currently jailed.
```

> We also faced heavy, automated SSH attacks on the database droplet, causing severe CPU spikes and prolonged MiniTwit downtime as the database struggled to reject login attempts. To mitigate this, we deployed fail2ban on the database droplet to ban IP addresses for 24 hours after two failed login attempts. This successfully deferred the threat, with around 200 malicious IP addresses currently jailed .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also faced heavy, SSH attacks on the database droplet, causing severe CPU spikes and prolonged MiniTwit downtime as the database struggled to reject login attempts. To mitigate this, we deployed fail2ban on the database droplet to ban IP addresses for 24 hours after two failed login attempts. This successfully deferred the threat, with around 200 malicious IP addresses currently jailed .
```
